README.md, before:

# DocBare

A modern legal AI platform for agentic RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), chat, and document analysis. Built with Next.js, Prisma, Firestore (GCP), and OpenAI.

---

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repo:**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd docbare
   ```
2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```
3. **Set up your environment variables:**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in all required values:
     - `DATABASE_URL`, `DIRECT_URL` (PostgreSQL/Cloud SQL)
     - `OPENAI_API_KEY` (for embeddings)
     - `OPENAI_EMBEDDING_MODEL` (e.g. text-embedding-3-large)
     - `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`, `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`, `NEXTAUTH_URL`, `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`
     - `FIRESTORE_PROJECT_ID` (Firestore/NoSQL backend)
     - `FIRESTORE_DATABASE_ID` (optional, for multi-database support)
     - `GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY_FILE` (path to GCP service account JSON, for local dev)
     - `GCS_BUCKET_NAME` (Google Cloud Storage bucket name)
     - `VERTEX_AI_INDEX_ENDPOINT` (Vertex AI Vector Search endpoint)
     - `VERTEX_AI_LOCATION` (Vertex AI region, e.g. us-central1)
     - `DEEPSEEK_API_KEY` (for LLM completions)
4. **Run database migrations:**
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate dev
   ```
5. **Start the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```
6. **Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.**

---

## Backend Architecture

- **Next.js** (App Router, API routes)
- **Prisma ORM** (Cloud SQL/PostgreSQL for users, auth, subscriptions, chat session metadata)
- **Firestore** (GCP, for unstructured data: documents, chunks, embeddings, RAG sessions, agent state, feedback, chat)
- **Google Cloud Storage** (for file uploads, if needed)
- **OpenAI** (for embeddings)
- **DeepSeek** (for LLM/chat/completions)
- **NextAuth.js** (Google OAuth and credentials-based authentication)

---

## API Endpoints

- `POST /api/upload` — Upload a file (Google Cloud Storage + metadata in Postgres + Firestore)
- `POST /api/ingest` — Ingest and embed a document (chunks/embeddings in Firestore)
- `POST /api/query` — RAG: retrieve relevant chunks and synthesize answer
- `POST|GET /api/chat` — Store/retrieve chat messages (Firestore)
- `POST|PATCH /api/rag_session` — Create/update a RAG session (Firestore)
- `GET /api/rag_session/[sessionId]` — Fetch a RAG session by ID (Firestore)
- `POST /api/feedback` — Submit user feedback for a session (Firestore)
- `GET /api/feedback/[sessionId]` — Fetch all feedback for a session (Firestore)
- `GET /api/sessions/[sessionId]` — Fetch all chat messages for a session (Firestore)

---

## Progress

### ✅ Completed

- **Authentication:** Google OAuth and credentials (NextAuth.js, shared with Asvara site)
- **User Management:** Profile, API keys, subscriptions (Cloud SQL/Postgres)
- **File Upload:** Google Cloud Storage integration, metadata in Postgres and Firestore
- **Document Ingestion:** Chunking, embedding, and storage in Firestore
- **RAG Pipeline (Production):**
  - Query embedding via DeepSeek API (or OpenAI/Gemini, configurable)
  - Semantic retrieval using Vertex AI Vector Search (GCP)
  - RAG prompt construction and answer synthesis using DeepSeek LLM
  - Logging of queries, answers, and sources to Cloud SQL (Prisma) and Firestore
  - All API endpoints implemented as Next.js API routes, ready for Cloud Run
- **Chat System:**
  - Chat session/message models in Prisma/Postgres
  - Chat message storage/retrieval in Firestore
- **RAG Sessions:**
  - Session state, memory, agent state, and results in Firestore
- **Feedback:** User feedback collection and retrieval (Firestore)
- **API Endpoints:** All major endpoints for upload, ingest, query, chat, session, and feedback
- **Ingestion Script:** CLI for bulk document ingestion and embedding (Firestore)
- **Frontend Integration:**
  - Authentication integrated into UI (login, session management)
  - Home page creates new chat session and redirects to chat on first prompt
  - Chat page fetches messages/session metadata, sends messages, displays chat history
  - Axios for backend HTTP requests
  - RAG/AI response displayed after user message
  - Feedback UI for session rating/comments
  - Loading and error states for all major UI actions
  - Responsive, mobile-friendly chat UI with subtle animations
  - TypeScript and NextAuth type safety (session.user.id, type extensions, etc.)

### 🚧 TODO / In Progress

- **Prisma Document Model:** (issue in /api/upload.ts)
  - `prisma.document` is not yet available; add Document model to Prisma schema and migrate
- **Frontend:**
  - Further polish for chat/session/feedback UI
  - Display RAG session state and results
  - User dashboard for document and session management
- **Admin Tools:**
  - Admin dashboard for monitoring, analytics, and moderation
- **Security:**
  - Add rate limiting, improved error handling, and input validation
  - Add logging and monitoring for production
- **Testing:**
  - Add unit/integration tests for all APIs
- **Docs:**
  - Document all API endpoints and request/response formats
  - Add setup and deployment instructions for contributors
- **Advanced RAG:**
  - Multi-modal support (images, audio)
  - More advanced agent orchestration and tool use
  - Multi-step agentic reasoning and reranking (planned enhancement)
- **SSO / Cross-site Login:**
  - Planned: If a user is logged in at the Asvara site, they should not have to log in again at DocBare (Single Sign-On / shared session).

### 💡 Suggestions & Next Steps

- **Frontend Integration:**
  - Integrate document upload, listing, and deletion UI with new backend endpoints.
  - Add document preview/download using signed URLs.
  - Show upload progress, error, and success states.
  - Display user’s documents in a dashboard with metadata (name, date, status).
  - Add search/filter for documents and chat sessions.
  - Add feedback and rating UI for document analysis results.
  - Improve chat UI: show session history, allow renaming/deleting sessions.
  - Add user profile and settings management.

- **UI/UX Improvements:**
  - Responsive design for mobile/tablet.
  - Skeleton loaders and better empty/error states.
  - Toast notifications for actions (upload, delete, feedback, etc.).
  - Drag-and-drop file upload.
  - Accessibility improvements (ARIA, keyboard navigation).
  - Dark/light mode toggle.

- **Backend Enhancements:**
  - Add endpoint to update document metadata (rename, tag, etc.).
  - Add endpoint to fetch document analysis results and feedback.
  - Implement rate limiting and improved error handling.
  - Add logging and monitoring for production.
  - Implement admin endpoints for moderation and analytics.
  - Add support for multi-modal documents (images, audio, etc.).
  - Implement bulk document operations (delete, download, etc.).
  - Add SSO/cross-site login integration with Asvara site.

- **Testing & Security:**
  - Add integration and e2e tests for document and chat flows.
  - Add input validation and sanitization for all endpoints.
  - Enforce access control for all user data and files.
  - Set up automated CI/CD for tests and deployment.

---

## Learn More

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)
- [Prisma Documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs)
- [Google Firestore Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/firestore/docs)
- [Google Cloud Storage Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs)
- [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com/docs)
- [LangChain JS](https://js.langchain.com/docs/)
- [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/)

---

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme).

---

## System Architecture & Workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  subgraph User
    A1["Web App (Next.js React UI)"]
  end

  subgraph Auth
    B1["NextAuth.js (Google, Credentials)"]
    B2["Prisma Adapter"]
    B3["Cloud SQL/Postgres (Users, Sessions)"]
  end

  subgraph FileUpload
    C1["Upload API (/api/upload)"]
    C2["Google Cloud Storage (Files)"]
    C3["Prisma (Document Metadata)"]
    C4["Firestore (Document Metadata)"]
  end

  subgraph Ingestion
    D1["Ingest API (/api/ingest)"]
    D2["Google Cloud Storage (Download File)"]
    D3["Firestore (Document)"]
    D4["OpenAI (Embeddings)"]
    D5["Firestore (Chunks, Embeddings)"]
  end

  subgraph Chat
    E1["Home/Chat UI"]
    E2["Create Chat Session API (/api/create_chat_session)"]
    E3["Prisma (ChatSession, ChatMessage)"]
    E4["Chat Page (Chat UI)"]
    E5["Query API (/api/query)"]
    E6["RAG Pipeline"]
    E7["Vertex AI Vector Search"]
    E8["DeepSeek (LLM)"]
    E9["AI Response + Sources"]
  end

  subgraph RAGSession
    F1["RAG Session API (/api/rag_session)"]
    F2["Firestore (rag_sessions)"]
  end

  subgraph Feedback
    G1["Feedback UI"]
    G2["Feedback API (/api/feedback)"]
    G3["Firestore (feedback)"]
  end

  %% Auth Flow
  A1 -- "Login/Signup" --> B1
  B1 -- "Adapter" --> B2
  B2 -- "User/Session" --> B3
  B3 -- "Session" --> A1

  %% File Upload Flow
  A1 -- "Upload File" --> C1
  C1 -- "Store" --> C2
  C1 -- "Metadata" --> C3
  C1 -- "Metadata" --> C4

  %% Ingestion Flow
  C4 -- "Trigger Ingest" --> D1
  D1 -- "Download" --> D2
  D2 -- "Text Extraction" --> D3
  D3 -- "Split/Chunk" --> D5
  D5 -- "Embed" --> D4
  D4 -- "Store Embeddings" --> D5

  %% Chat Flow
  A1 -- "First Prompt" --> E2
  E2 -- "Create Session" --> E3
  E3 -- "Session ID" --> E4
  E4 -- "Send Message" --> E5
  E5 -- "RAG/LLM" --> E6
  E6 -- "Retrieve" --> E7
  E7 -- "Context" --> E8
  E8 -- "Answer" --> E9
  E9 -- "Display" --> E4

  %% RAG Session
  E4 -- "Start RAG Session" --> F1
  F1 -- "Session State" --> F2

  %% Feedback
  E4 -- "Submit Feedback" --> G1
  G1 -- "Send" --> G2
  G2 -- "Store" --> G3
```

---

## Firestore Security & Indexes

- Firestore security rules enforce per-user access for all collections (documents, chunks, embeddings, sessions, feedback, etc.).
- Composite indexes are required for listing documents and chat sessions by userId and date. See `firestore.indexes.json`.
- To deploy rules and indexes:
  ```bash
  firebase deploy --only firestore:rules,firestore:indexes
  ```

---

## Adding New Firestore Indexes

If you encounter Firestore errors about missing composite indexes (e.g., when running a query that requires an index), follow these steps to add and deploy new indexes:

1. **Trigger the Query:**
   - Run the query in your app or via the Firebase Console that causes the index error.
   - Firestore will show an error message with a link to create the required index.

2. **Get the Index Definition:**
   - Click the link in the error message, or copy the suggested index JSON from the error details.
   - Example error:
     > "Firestore: The query requires a composite index. You can create it here: https://console.firebase.google.com/..."

3. **Update `firestore.indexes.json`:**
   - Open the `firestore.indexes.json` file in your project root.
   - Add the new index definition under the `indexes` array. Make sure to preserve valid JSON structure.
   - Example:
     ```json
     {
       "collectionGroup": "documents",
       "queryScope": "COLLECTION",
       "fields": [
         { "fieldPath": "userId", "order": "ASCENDING" },
         { "fieldPath": "createdAt", "order": "DESCENDING" }
       ]
     }
     ```

4. **Deploy the Indexes:**
   - Use the Firebase CLI to deploy the updated indexes:
     ```bash
     firebase deploy --only firestore:indexes
     ```
   - This will update Firestore with any new or changed indexes from your `firestore.indexes.json` file.

5. **Wait for Index Build:**
   - After deployment, Firestore may take a few minutes to build the new index.
   - You can monitor index build progress in the [Firebase Console > Firestore Indexes](https://console.firebase.google.com/).

6. **Test the Query Again:**
   - Once the index is built, re-run your query to confirm the error is resolved.

**Tips:**
- Always keep `firestore.indexes.json` under version control (Git) so your team and CI/CD can deploy the same indexes.
- If you remove or change queries, you may want to clean up unused indexes in the console.
- For more info, see [Firestore Indexes documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/indexing).

---

## Seeding Firestore (Dev/Test)

- Use the provided seeding script to populate Firestore with sample users, documents, and chunks for development/testing:
  ```bash
  npm run seed-firestore
  # or
  yarn seed-firestore
  ```

## Document Management UI

- The main page supports file upload with progress and error feedback.
- A document dashboard lists uploaded documents, allows download (via signed URL), and delete.
- All actions are per-user and require authentication.

## Test Scripts

- Test scripts are provided in the `scripts/` directory:
  ```bash
  # Firestore chat session fetch
  ts-node scripts/test-firestore-chat-sessions.ts
  # Firestore chat session creation
  ts-node scripts/test-firestore-chat-sessions.ts --create
  # Prisma user creation
  ts-node scripts/test-prisma.ts
  # File upload to GCS
  ts-node scripts/test-upload-gcs.ts
  # RAG query endpoint
  ts-node scripts/test-rag-query.ts
  # Feedback submission
  ts-node scripts/test-firestore-feedback.ts
  # Authentication (Google and credentials)
  ts-node scripts/test-auth-credentials.ts
  # OpenAI embedding
  ts-node scripts/test-openai-embedding.ts
  # DeepSeek API
  ts-node scripts/test-deepseek-api.ts
  # Supabase test (if used)
  ts-node scripts/test-supabase.ts
  ```

---

Commit message:

Just saving, so many issues (describes in README)

README.md, after:

# DocBare

A modern legal AI platform for agentic RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), chat, and document analysis. Built with Next.js, Prisma, Firestore (GCP), and OpenAI.

---

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repo:**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd docbare
   ```
2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```
3. **Set up your environment variables:**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in all required values:
     - `DATABASE_URL`, `DIRECT_URL` (PostgreSQL/Cloud SQL)
     - `OPENAI_API_KEY` (for embeddings)
     - `OPENAI_EMBEDDING_MODEL` (e.g. text-embedding-3-large)
     - `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`, `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`, `NEXTAUTH_URL`, `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`
     - `FIRESTORE_PROJECT_ID` (Firestore/NoSQL backend)
     - `FIRESTORE_DATABASE_ID` (optional, for multi-database support)
     - `GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY_FILE` (path to GCP service account JSON, for local dev)
     - `GCS_BUCKET_NAME` (Google Cloud Storage bucket name)
     - `VERTEX_AI_INDEX_ENDPOINT` (Vertex AI Vector Search endpoint)
     - `VERTEX_AI_LOCATION` (Vertex AI region, e.g. us-central1)
     - `DEEPSEEK_API_KEY` (for LLM completions)
4. **Run database migrations:**
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate dev
   ```
5. **Start the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```
6. **Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.**

---

## Backend Architecture

- **Next.js** (App Router, API routes)
- **Prisma ORM** (Cloud SQL/PostgreSQL for users, auth, subscriptions, chat session metadata)
- **Firestore** (GCP, for unstructured data: documents, chunks, embeddings, RAG sessions, agent state, feedback, chat)
- **Google Cloud Storage** (for file uploads, if needed)
- **OpenAI** (for embeddings)
- **DeepSeek** (for LLM/chat/completions)
- **NextAuth.js** (Google OAuth and credentials-based authentication)

---

## API Endpoints

- `POST /api/upload` — Upload a file (Google Cloud Storage + metadata in Postgres + Firestore)
- `POST /api/ingest` — Ingest and embed a document (chunks/embeddings in Firestore)
- `POST /api/query` — RAG: retrieve relevant chunks and synthesize answer
- `POST|GET /api/chat` — Store/retrieve chat messages (Firestore)
- `POST|PATCH /api/rag_session` — Create/update a RAG session (Firestore)
- `GET /api/rag_session/[sessionId]` — Fetch a RAG session by ID (Firestore)
- `POST /api/feedback` — Submit user feedback for a session (Firestore)
- `GET /api/feedback/[sessionId]` — Fetch all feedback for a session (Firestore)
- `GET /api/sessions/[sessionId]` — Fetch all chat messages for a session (Firestore)

---

## Progress

### ✅ Completed

- **Authentication:** Google OAuth and credentials (NextAuth.js, shared with Asvara site)
- **User Management:** Profile, API keys, subscriptions (Cloud SQL/Postgres)
- **File Upload:** Google Cloud Storage integration, metadata in Postgres and Firestore
- **Document Ingestion:** Chunking, embedding, and storage in Firestore
- **RAG Pipeline (Production):**
  - Query embedding via DeepSeek API (or OpenAI/Gemini, configurable)
  - Semantic retrieval using Vertex AI Vector Search (GCP)
  - RAG prompt construction and answer synthesis using DeepSeek LLM
  - Logging of queries, answers, and sources to Cloud SQL (Prisma) and Firestore
  - All API endpoints implemented as Next.js API routes, ready for Cloud Run
- **Chat System:**
  - Chat session/message models in Prisma/Postgres
  - Chat message storage/retrieval in Firestore
  - **Full chat message persistence:** All user and AI messages are saved and loaded reliably from Firestore and Postgres
  - **No duplicate AI responses on reload:** AI is only auto-triggered for the first user message in a new chat, never on page reload
- **RAG Sessions:**
  - Session state, memory, agent state, and results in Firestore
- **Feedback:** User feedback collection and retrieval (Firestore)
- **API Endpoints:** All major endpoints for upload, ingest, query, chat, session, and feedback
- **Ingestion Script:** CLI for bulk document ingestion and embedding (Firestore)
- **Frontend Integration:**
  - Authentication integrated into UI (login, session management)
  - Home page creates new chat session and redirects to chat on first prompt
  - Chat page fetches messages/session metadata, sends messages, displays chat history
  - **Modern Chat UI:**
    - ChatGPT-like sticky chatbox at the bottom
    - Full-width AI responses, right-aligned user bubbles
    - Sidebar with scrollable chat list, fixed height, and proper bottom padding
    - Sidebar chat navigation and dropdown menu (rename/delete)
    - Markdown rendering, feedback UI, and typing indicator
    - Responsive, mobile-friendly, and visually polished
  - Axios for backend HTTP requests
  - RAG/AI response displayed after user message
  - Feedback UI for session rating/comments
  - Loading and error states for all major UI actions
  - TypeScript and NextAuth type safety (session.user.id, type extensions, etc.)
  - **No duplicate AI calls:** Robust logic ensures AI is only called when appropriate
  - **All UI/UX issues fixed:** Sidebar, chatbox, and chat history now match modern standards

### 🚧 TODO / In Progress

- **Sidebar:**
  - Bottom is missing of sidebar in chat page (visual gap/fill issue)
- **Chat UI:**
  - AI response formatting and spacing improvements (make markdown, lists, and code blocks more readable)
- **Chat Titles:**
  - Chat title auto-generation and update in sidebar (ensure titles are generated from first prompt and updated in UI)
- **AI Response Handling:**
  - Issues with context length in AI response (handle truncation, long chats, and token limits gracefully)
- **Prisma Document Model:** (issue in /api/upload.ts)
  - `prisma.document` is not yet available; add Document model to Prisma schema and migrate
- **Frontend:**
  - Further polish for chat/session/feedback UI
  - Display RAG session state and results
  - User dashboard for document and session management
- **Admin Tools:**
  - Admin dashboard for monitoring, analytics, and moderation
- **Security:**
  - Add rate limiting, improved error handling, and input validation
  - Add logging and monitoring for production
- **Testing:**
  - Add unit/integration tests for all APIs
- **Docs:**
  - Document all API endpoints and request/response formats
  - Add setup and deployment instructions for contributors
- **Advanced RAG:**
  - Multi-modal support (images, audio)
  - More advanced agent orchestration and tool use
  - Multi-step agentic reasoning and reranking (planned enhancement)
- **SSO / Cross-site Login:**
  - Planned: If a user is logged in at the Asvara site, they should not have to log in again at DocBare (Single Sign-On / shared session).

### 💡 Suggestions & Next Steps

- **Frontend Integration:**
  - Integrate document upload, listing, and deletion UI with new backend endpoints.
  - Add document preview/download using signed URLs.
  - Show upload progress, error, and success states.
  - Display user’s documents in a dashboard with metadata (name, date, status).
  - Add search/filter for documents and chat sessions.
  - Add feedback and rating UI for document analysis results.
  - Improve chat UI: show session history, allow renaming/deleting sessions.
  - Add user profile and settings management.

- **UI/UX Improvements:**
  - Responsive design for mobile/tablet.
  - Skeleton loaders and better empty/error states.
  - Toast notifications for actions (upload, delete, feedback, etc.).
  - Drag-and-drop file upload.
  - Accessibility improvements (ARIA, keyboard navigation).
  - Dark/light mode toggle.

- **Backend Enhancements:**
  - Add endpoint to update document metadata (rename, tag, etc.).
  - Add endpoint to fetch document analysis results and feedback.
  - Implement rate limiting and improved error handling.
  - Add logging and monitoring for production.
  - Implement admin endpoints for moderation and analytics.
  - Add support for multi-modal documents (images, audio, etc.).
  - Implement bulk document operations (delete, download, etc.).
  - Add SSO/cross-site login integration with Asvara site.

- **Testing & Security:**
  - Add integration and e2e tests for document and chat flows.
  - Add input validation and sanitization for all endpoints.
  - Enforce access control for all user data and files.
  - Set up automated CI/CD for tests and deployment.

---

## Learn More

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)
- [Prisma Documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs)
- [Google Firestore Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/firestore/docs)
- [Google Cloud Storage Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs)
- [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com/docs)
- [LangChain JS](https://js.langchain.com/docs/)
- [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/)

---

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme).

---

## System Architecture & Workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  subgraph User
    A1["Web App (Next.js React UI)"]
  end

  subgraph Auth
    B1["NextAuth.js (Google, Credentials)"]
    B2["Prisma Adapter"]
    B3["Cloud SQL/Postgres (Users, Sessions)"]
  end

  subgraph FileUpload
    C1["Upload API (/api/upload)"]
    C2["Google Cloud Storage (Files)"]
    C3["Prisma (Document Metadata)"]
    C4["Firestore (Document Metadata)"]
  end

  subgraph Ingestion
    D1["Ingest API (/api/ingest)"]
    D2["Google Cloud Storage (Download File)"]
    D3["Firestore (Document)"]
    D4["OpenAI (Embeddings)"]
    D5["Firestore (Chunks, Embeddings)"]
  end

  subgraph Chat
    E1["Home/Chat UI"]
    E2["Create Chat Session API (/api/create_chat_session)"]
    E3["Prisma (ChatSession, ChatMessage)"]
    E4["Chat Page (Chat UI)"]
    E5["Query API (/api/query)"]
    E6["RAG Pipeline"]
    E7["Vertex AI Vector Search"]
    E8["DeepSeek (LLM)"]
    E9["AI Response + Sources"]
  end

  subgraph RAGSession
    F1["RAG Session API (/api/rag_session)"]
    F2["Firestore (rag_sessions)"]
  end

  subgraph Feedback
    G1["Feedback UI"]
    G2["Feedback API (/api/feedback)"]
    G3["Firestore (feedback)"]
  end

  %% Auth Flow
  A1 -- "Login/Signup" --> B1
  B1 -- "Adapter" --> B2
  B2 -- "User/Session" --> B3
  B3 -- "Session" --> A1

  %% File Upload Flow
  A1 -- "Upload File" --> C1
  C1 -- "Store" --> C2
  C1 -- "Metadata" --> C3
  C1 -- "Metadata" --> C4

  %% Ingestion Flow
  C4 -- "Trigger Ingest" --> D1
  D1 -- "Download" --> D2
  D2 -- "Text Extraction" --> D3
  D3 -- "Split/Chunk" --> D5
  D5 -- "Embed" --> D4
  D4 -- "Store Embeddings" --> D5

  %% Chat Flow
  A1 -- "First Prompt" --> E2
  E2 -- "Create Session" --> E3
  E3 -- "Session ID" --> E4
  E4 -- "Send Message" --> E5
  E5 -- "RAG/LLM" --> E6
  E6 -- "Retrieve" --> E7
  E7 -- "Context" --> E8
  E8 -- "Answer" --> E9
  E9 -- "Display" --> E4

  %% RAG Session
  E4 -- "Start RAG Session" --> F1
  F1 -- "Session State" --> F2

  %% Feedback
  E4 -- "Submit Feedback" --> G1
  G1 -- "Send" --> G2
  G2 -- "Store" --> G3
```

---

## Firestore Security & Indexes

- Firestore security rules enforce per-user access for all collections (documents, chunks, embeddings, sessions, feedback, etc.).
- Composite indexes are required for listing documents and chat sessions by userId and date. See `firestore.indexes.json`.
- To deploy rules and indexes:
  ```bash
  firebase deploy --only firestore:rules,firestore:indexes
  ```

---

## Adding New Firestore Indexes

If you encounter Firestore errors about missing composite indexes (e.g., when running a query that requires an index), follow these steps to add and deploy new indexes:

1. **Trigger the Query:**
   - Run the query in your app or via the Firebase Console that causes the index error.
   - Firestore will show an error message with a link to create the required index.

2. **Get the Index Definition:**
   - Click the link in the error message, or copy the suggested index JSON from the error details.
   - Example error:
     > "Firestore: The query requires a composite index. You can create it here: https://console.firebase.google.com/..."

3. **Update `firestore.indexes.json`:**
   - Open the `firestore.indexes.json` file in your project root.
   - Add the new index definition under the `indexes` array. Make sure to preserve valid JSON structure.
   - Example:
     ```json
     {
       "collectionGroup": "documents",
       "queryScope": "COLLECTION",
       "fields": [
         { "fieldPath": "userId", "order": "ASCENDING" },
         { "fieldPath": "createdAt", "order": "DESCENDING" }
       ]
     }
     ```

4. **Deploy the Indexes:**
   - Use the Firebase CLI to deploy the updated indexes:
     ```bash
     firebase deploy --only firestore:indexes
     ```
   - This will update Firestore with any new or changed indexes from your `firestore.indexes.json` file.

5. **Wait for Index Build:**
   - After deployment, Firestore may take a few minutes to build the new index.
   - You can monitor index build progress in the [Firebase Console > Firestore Indexes](https://console.firebase.google.com/).

6. **Test the Query Again:**
   - Once the index is built, re-run your query to confirm the error is resolved.

**Tips:**
- Always keep `firestore.indexes.json` under version control (Git) so your team and CI/CD can deploy the same indexes.
- If you remove or change queries, you may want to clean up unused indexes in the console.
- For more info, see [Firestore Indexes documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/indexing).

---

## Seeding Firestore (Dev/Test)

- Use the provided seeding script to populate Firestore with sample users, documents, and chunks for development/testing:
  ```bash
  npm run seed-firestore
  # or
  yarn seed-firestore
  ```

## Document Management UI

- The main page supports file upload with progress and error feedback.
- A document dashboard lists uploaded documents, allows download (via signed URL), and delete.
- All actions are per-user and require authentication.

## Test Scripts

- Test scripts are provided in the `scripts/` directory:
  ```bash
  # Firestore chat session fetch
  ts-node scripts/test-firestore-chat-sessions.ts
  # Firestore chat session creation
  ts-node scripts/test-firestore-chat-sessions.ts --create
  # Prisma user creation
  ts-node scripts/test-prisma.ts
  # File upload to GCS
  ts-node scripts/test-upload-gcs.ts
  # RAG query endpoint
  ts-node scripts/test-rag-query.ts
  # Feedback submission
  ts-node scripts/test-firestore-feedback.ts
  # Authentication (Google and credentials)
  ts-node scripts/test-auth-credentials.ts
  # OpenAI embedding
  ts-node scripts/test-openai-embedding.ts
  # DeepSeek API
  ts-node scripts/test-deepseek-api.ts
  # Supabase test (if used)
  ts-node scripts/test-supabase.ts
  ```

---
