Docs/DOCUMENT_AI_ENV_SETUP.md, before:

# Document AI Environment Variables Setup Guide

## Required Environment Variables

Based on your Google Cloud Document AI processors, here are the exact environment variables you need to configure:

### 1. Google Cloud Configuration
```bash
# Your Google Cloud Project ID (from the image)
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID=238908103508

# Path to your service account key file
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=./secrets/docbare-document-ai-key.json
```

### 2. Document AI Configuration
```bash
# Document AI location (from the image)
DOCUMENT_AI_LOCATION=us

# Document AI Processor IDs
# Replace with your actual processor IDs from Google Cloud Console

# Layout Parser Processor (from the image)
DOCUMENT_AI_LAYOUT_PROCESSOR_ID=287ff3f615f149eb

# General Document Processor (use the same ID for now, or create a separate one)
DOCUMENT_AI_GENERAL_PROCESSOR_ID=287ff3f615f149eb

# Legal Document Processor (create this processor in Google Cloud Console)
DOCUMENT_AI_LEGAL_DOCUMENT_PROCESSOR_ID=your-legal-processor-id

# Form Parser Processor (create this processor in Google Cloud Console)
DOCUMENT_AI_FORM_PARSER_PROCESSOR_ID=your-form-processor-id

# OCR Processor (create this processor in Google Cloud Console)
DOCUMENT_AI_OCR_PROCESSOR_ID=your-ocr-processor-id
```

## How to Get Processor IDs

1. **Go to Google Cloud Console**
2. **Navigate to Document AI**
3. **Click on "Processors"**
4. **For each processor, copy the Processor ID from the Basic Information section**

## Processor Types You Should Create

Based on the [Google Cloud Document AI documentation](https://cloud.google.com/nodejs/docs/reference/documentai/latest), create these processors:

### 1. Layout Parser (Already Created)
- **Type**: Layout Parser
- **Purpose**: Extract text with layout information
- **Best for**: Complex documents with tables, forms, and structured layouts

### 2. General Document Processor
- **Type**: General Document Processor
- **Purpose**: General text extraction
- **Best for**: Simple documents, PDFs, images

### 3. Legal Document Processor
- **Type**: Legal Document Processor
- **Purpose**: Legal document specific processing
- **Best for**: Contracts, agreements, legal forms

### 4. Form Parser Processor
- **Type**: Form Parser Processor
- **Purpose**: Extract form fields and values
- **Best for**: Forms, applications, questionnaires

### 5. OCR Processor
- **Type**: OCR Processor
- **Purpose**: Optical Character Recognition
- **Best for**: Scanned documents, images with text

## Complete .env File Example

```bash
# Google Cloud Configuration
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID=238908103508
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=./secrets/docbare-document-ai-key.json

# Document AI Configuration
DOCUMENT_AI_LOCATION=us

# Document AI Processor IDs
DOCUMENT_AI_GENERAL_PROCESSOR_ID=287ff3f615f149eb
DOCUMENT_AI_LEGAL_DOCUMENT_PROCESSOR_ID=your-legal-processor-id
DOCUMENT_AI_LAYOUT_PROCESSOR_ID=287ff3f615f149eb
DOCUMENT_AI_FORM_PARSER_PROCESSOR_ID=your-form-processor-id
DOCUMENT_AI_OCR_PROCESSOR_ID=your-ocr-processor-id

# Database Configuration
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/docbare"

# NextAuth Configuration
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-nextauth-secret

# Google OAuth
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-google-client-id
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your-google-client-secret

# OpenAI Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key

# Firebase Configuration
FIRESTORE_PROJECT_ID=your-firestore-project-id
GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY_FILE=./secrets/firebase-key.json

# Google Cloud Storage
GCS_BUCKET_NAME=your-gcs-bucket-name

# Other Configuration
NODE_ENV=development
```

## Testing Your Configuration

After setting up the environment variables, test the Document AI integration:

```bash
# Test Document AI connection
npx ts-node --project tsconfig.scripts.json scripts/test-document-ai.ts

# Test with a real document
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/ingest \
  -F "file=@test-document.pdf" \
  -F "userId=test-user-id"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **"Processor ID not configured" error**
   - Check that all processor IDs are set correctly
   - Verify the processor exists in Google Cloud Console

2. **Authentication errors**
   - Ensure `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` points to a valid service account key
   - Verify the service account has Document AI permissions

3. **"Project not found" error**
   - Verify `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID` matches your actual project ID
   - Ensure the Document AI API is enabled in your project

## Next Steps

1. **Create the missing processors** in Google Cloud Console
2. **Update the processor IDs** in your environment variables
3. **Test the integration** with the test script
4. **Deploy to production** with the updated configuration

Commit message:

Fix Document AI processor types - Remove non-existent GENERAL and LEGAL_DOCUMENT processors - Update to use correct Google Cloud Document AI processor types - Layout Parser is the main general-purpose processor - Update documentation with correct processor information - Simplify processor selection logic

Docs/DOCUMENT_AI_ENV_SETUP.md, after:

# Document AI Environment Variables Setup Guide

## Required Environment Variables

Based on your Google Cloud Document AI processors, here are the exact environment variables you need to configure:

### 1. Google Cloud Configuration
```bash
# Your Google Cloud Project ID (from the image)
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID=238908103508

# Path to your service account key file
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=./secrets/docbare-document-ai-key.json
```

### 2. Document AI Configuration
```bash
# Document AI location (from the image)
DOCUMENT_AI_LOCATION=us

# Document AI Processor IDs
# Replace with your actual processor IDs from Google Cloud Console

# Layout Parser Processor (from the image) - General purpose document processing
DOCUMENT_AI_LAYOUT_PROCESSOR_ID=your-layout-processor-id

# Form Parser Processor (create this processor in Google Cloud Console)
DOCUMENT_AI_FORM_PARSER_PROCESSOR_ID=your-form-processor-id

# OCR Processor (create this processor in Google Cloud Console)
DOCUMENT_AI_OCR_PROCESSOR_ID=your-ocr-processor-id
```

## How to Get Processor IDs

1. **Go to Google Cloud Console**
2. **Navigate to Document AI**
3. **Click on "Processors"**
4. **For each processor, copy the Processor ID from the Basic Information section**

## Processor Types You Should Create

Based on the [Google Cloud Document AI documentation](https://cloud.google.com/nodejs/docs/reference/documentai/latest), create these processors:

### 1. Layout Parser (Already Created)
- **Type**: Layout Parser
- **Purpose**: Extract text with layout information (general purpose)
- **Best for**: All documents, PDFs, images, complex layouts, tables, forms
- **Note**: This is the main processor for most document types

### 2. Form Parser Processor
- **Type**: Form Parser Processor
- **Purpose**: Extract form fields and values
- **Best for**: Forms, applications, questionnaires, structured documents

### 3. OCR Processor
- **Type**: OCR Processor
- **Purpose**: Optical Character Recognition
- **Best for**: Scanned documents, images with text, handwritten documents

## Complete .env File Example

```bash
# Google Cloud Configuration
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID=238908103508
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=./secrets/docbare-document-ai-key.json

# Document AI Configuration
DOCUMENT_AI_LOCATION=us

# Document AI Processor IDs
DOCUMENT_AI_LAYOUT_PROCESSOR_ID=287ff3f615f149eb
DOCUMENT_AI_FORM_PARSER_PROCESSOR_ID=your-form-processor-id
DOCUMENT_AI_OCR_PROCESSOR_ID=your-ocr-processor-id

# Database Configuration
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/docbare"

# NextAuth Configuration
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-nextauth-secret

# Google OAuth
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-google-client-id
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your-google-client-secret

# OpenAI Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key

# Firebase Configuration
FIRESTORE_PROJECT_ID=your-firestore-project-id
GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY_FILE=./secrets/firebase-key.json

# Google Cloud Storage
GCS_BUCKET_NAME=your-gcs-bucket-name

# Other Configuration
NODE_ENV=development
```

## Testing Your Configuration

After setting up the environment variables, test the Document AI integration:

```bash
# Test Document AI connection
npx ts-node --project tsconfig.scripts.json scripts/test-document-ai.ts

# Test with a real document
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/ingest \
  -F "file=@test-document.pdf" \
  -F "userId=test-user-id"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **"Processor ID not configured" error**
   - Check that all processor IDs are set correctly
   - Verify the processor exists in Google Cloud Console

2. **Authentication errors**
   - Ensure `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` points to a valid service account key
   - Verify the service account has Document AI permissions

3. **"Project not found" error**
   - Verify `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID` matches your actual project ID
   - Ensure the Document AI API is enabled in your project

## Next Steps

1. **Create the missing processors** in Google Cloud Console (Form Parser, OCR)
2. **Update the processor IDs** in your environment variables
3. **Test the integration** with the test script
4. **Deploy to production** with the updated configuration

## Important Notes

- **Layout Parser is the main processor** for most document types
- **No "General Document Processor" or "Legal Document Processor"** exist in Google Cloud Document AI
- **Layout Parser handles** legal documents, contracts, agreements, and all other document types
- **Form Parser** is specifically for structured forms and applications
- **OCR Processor** is for scanned documents and images with text
